.TH webchanges 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
webchanges \- monitor parts of webpages for changes in content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
webchanges \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIFILE\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ds wc \fBwebchanges\fR
\*(wc - as its name says - gives you the ability to monitor parts of
webpages for user-relevant changes.
.br
For each collection of webpages, the user has to write a so-called \fBmonitor file\fR once.
This file describes, which documents on the web belong to the collection being monitored, and which parts of these documents are relevant.
A single relevant part of a document is called \fBmonitor\fR.
.br
To be pedantic, \*(wc operates on the [X]HTML-parts of a webpage only (leaving images, animations, etc. out) and uses W3C's XPath 1.0 embedded in its own language to select those relevant parts.
.br
\*(wc can process multiple monitor \fIFILE\fRs successively.
.SH COMMANDS
When calling \*(wc, you have to specify exactly one of the following \fICOMMAND\fRs:
.TP
.B \-i
initialize
.br
Initialize \fIFILE\fR by downloading all referenced documents into local cache.
This is always the first step when working with a newborn monitor file.
.TP
.B \-c
check
.br
Check each monitor in \fIFILE\fR for relevant changes and print a report to stdout.
.TP
.B \-u
update
.br
Check each monitor in \fIFILE\fR for relevant changes and print a report to stdout.
Each referenced document, that contains at least one triggered monitor, will be updated by downloading the current version into local cache.
.TP
.B \-r
remove
.br
Remove all files in local cache, whose corresponding URLs are referenced in \fIFILE\fR; \fIFILE\fR itself is not removed.
.TP
.B \-V
Display version & copyright information and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
Display this help and exit.
.SH OPTIONS
Additionally you may specify one or more of the following \fIOPTION\fRs:
.TP
.B \-f
force
.br
For commands \fB-c\fR and \fB-u\fR force checking of each monitor, regardless if necessary or not; apart from these two commands it has no effect.
.TP
.B \-q
quiet
.br
Suppress all messages except from warnings and errors.
.TP
.B \-v
verbose
.br
Repeat this option to increase the amount of messages, going to stdout.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\*(wc distinguishes between warnings like a failed download try (non-severe), and errors like an invalid monitor file (severe), while processing a given monitor file. In opposite to warnings, errors always cause an abnormal program termination.
.br
Normally though, when no error occured at all, the exit status is non-negative equalling the number of changed monitors. Although warnings might appear in the resulting output, they do not change the exit status.
.br
In case an error occurs, the exit status becomes (and stays) negative.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marius Konitzer.
.br
See the file \fIAUTHORS\fR in the \*(wc source distribution.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <m.konitzer@gmx.de>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006, 2007 Marius Konitzer.
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
